<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Stumpy’s Fate</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“I am afraid⁠—” began Carson Drew, but did not finish the sentence. Instead, he leaned over Stumpy Dowd and placed his fingers on the man’s pulse.</p>
			<p>“Is⁠—is he dead?” Nancy asked fearfully, after a few moments.</p>
			<p>Carson Drew relinquished Stumpy’s wrist and turned grave eyes upon his daughter.</p>
			<p>“He’s still alive, but his heart action is very weak. I don’t believe we’ll be able to get him to the hospital.”</p>
			<p>“But we must try!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course. But it’s not going to be easy to get him to the automobile.”</p>
			<p>“There’s a blanket in my roadster. Perhaps we could carry him on that.”</p>
			<p>“I believe we could.”</p>
			<p>“Then I’ll get it.”</p>
			<p>Nancy scrambled up the cliff to the road and returned in a few minutes with the blanket. The unconscious Stumpy was lifted gently and placed upon it.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew and the two girls gathered up the corners and began the difficult climb. As they carried him to the automobile, Stumpy gave no sign of recovering consciousness.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid we can’t do him much good,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew commented, as they stretched him out on the rear seat of the sedan.</p>
			<p>“I believe he’s recovering consciousness,” Nancy observed quietly.</p>
			<p>As she spoke the man stirred slightly and groaned.</p>
			<p>“That’s an encouraging sign,” Carson Drew declared. “We’ll rush him to the hospital at Hamilton.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll go back after the suitcases, and catch up with you later,” Nancy suggested.</p>
			<p>“All right. That will be wisest, I guess. We must rush Stumpy to the hospital without a minute’s delay.” He turned to Laura. “Perhaps you had better ride with me and keep an eye on Stumpy. I don’t think he will recover enough to make trouble, but someone had best watch him. You don’t mind?”</p>
			<p>“Of course not.”</p>
			<p>Laura climbed into the sedan with the lawyer, and Nancy watched them drive away. Then she hurriedly descended the cliff and picked up the two suitcases. She was tempted to open them to make sure that Laura’s fortune was inside, but upon second thought decided that it would take too much time. She must speed after her father and Laura.</p>
			<p>Dragging the heavy suitcases up the slope, she deposited them in the roadster, and started down the road after the sedan. Although she drove rapidly, she did not overtake her father. Reaching Hamilton, she stopped at a gasoline station and asked the way to the police hospital.</p>
			<p>Arriving there, she saw her father’s sedan parked outside. Leaving the two precious suitcases inside the roadster, she locked both doors and ran inside. Laura was standing near the door and Carson Drew was talking with the authorities. Presently, he came over to Nancy and Laura, bringing a distinguished-looking man with him.</p>
			<p>Quietly he presented <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Howland, the chief of police. The man bowed to both girls, but his eyes lingered upon Nancy after the introduction had been completed.</p>
			<p>“I have just learned of the part you played in the daring capture of Stumpy Dowd,” he said to her. “Allow me to congratulate you.”</p>
			<p>The chief of police extended his hand, and Nancy Drew accepted it with a pleased smile.</p>
			<p>“It was really nothing,” she protested modestly. “I would never have been suspicious of the man if I hadn’t been trying to help my friend. Even after I discovered his identity, I might have fallen down on the job if father hadn’t come along at the critical moment.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not sure about that, Miss Drew,” and the chief smiled. “You strike me as a very resourceful young lady.”</p>
			<p>“Suppose there is no question that the man is really Stumpy Dowd?” Nancy inquired. She was eager to change the subject to a less personal one.</p>
			<p>“Not the slightest. I came to the hospital just as soon as I was notified that he had been captured and identified him myself. I would know that face anywhere. He’s been in the rogues’ gallery for a good many years, but has managed to keep out of the way of the police. He’s led us a merry chase!”</p>
			<p>“Will he live?”</p>
			<p>“Sturpy is on the operating table now,” Carson Drew explained to Nancy. “The doctor considers his condition very grave, but he may pull through.”</p>
			<p>“And if he does he’ll get a long term in prison,” the chief added.</p>
			<p>Nancy was pressed for details of her part in the capture of the man. However, in telling her story, she did not mention Jacob Aborn, for she wished to surprise Laura later.</p>
			<p>“We may as well go back home,” Carson Drew said presently. “It may be hours before we learn anything definite about Stumpy’s condition.”</p>
			<p>“If you’ll give me your telephone number, I’ll see to it that you are kept informed,” the chief promised.</p>
			<p>After <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew had written his address and telephone number on a slip of paper, the three left the building.</p>
			<p>“Ho-hum!” Carson Drew yawned sleepily.</p>
			<p>“I think it’s time we were all in bed.”</p>
			<p>“Not yet,” Nancy declared importantly. “We must return to Melrose Lake.”</p>
			<p>“Why should we go back there?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell you when we get there,” Nancy announced mysteriously. “It’s a surprise.”</p>
			<p>“Well, just as you say,” her father grumbled good-naturedly. “But I hope the surprise is worth while, because I’m tired.”</p>
			<p>With Laura and Nancy riding in the roadster, the two automobiles started off for Melrose Lake. This time, however, they traveled at a moderate rate of speed.</p>
			<p>“Where in the world are we going?” Laura questioned, as Nancy turned into a familiar side road. “Aren’t we heading toward my guardian’s bungalow?”</p>
			<p>It was with difficulty that she spoke the word “guardian.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” Nancy admitted.</p>
			<p>“Oh, why are we going back there? After all that has happened I don’t believe I shall ever want to go back!”</p>
			<p>Nancy reached out and patted Laura’s hand reassuringly.</p>
			<p>“Just trust me,” she said smilingly.</p>
			<p>Nancy had selected the lake route and was able to drive the roadster very nearly to the doorstep of the Aborn bungalow. Stopping the car, she waited for her father, who was a short way behind.</p>
			<p>“Why, there’s a light inside the house!” Laura exclaimed. “And I can see someone moving about!”</p>
			<p>Nancy Drew smiled and began to unload the suitcases from the back of the roadster.</p>
			<p>“What are you up to, anyway?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew demanded, as he stepped out of his sedan and came toward the girls.</p>
			<p>“You’ll soon find out,” Nancy laughed.</p>
			<p>“Here, I’ll carry those suitcases,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew picked up the two bags and followed Nancy down the path toward the bungalow.</p>
			<p>Laura held back rather reluctantly, but Nancy kept pulling her along. Boldly she opened the front door and stepped into the lighted living room.</p>
			<p>“Laura!” a low voice murmured.</p>
			<p>Jacob Aborn arose from a chair and held out his arms.</p>
			<p>Laura hesitated, and glanced uncertainly from Nancy to Jacob Aborn.</p>
			<p>“Your real guardian,” Nancy said, “Jacob Aborn!”</p>
			<p>“My guardian! Oh!”</p>
			<p>With a little cry of joy, Laura went to him. For several minutes Nancy and her father stood quietly watching the happy homecoming. Then at last, they were swept into the conversation again.</p>
			<p>“Did the doctor come?” Nancy inquired, for she observed that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Aborn appeared much stronger than when she had left him a few hours before.</p>
			<p>“Yes, thanks to your kindness, Miss Drew. He said he thought I would be all right in a few days. I feel much better already.”</p>
			<p>“I’m glad of that.”</p>
			<p>“I worried a great deal about you after you left. What happened? Did you catch that scoundrel?”</p>
			<p>Nancy was forced to repeat the story a second time, and for the benefit of her father and Laura, added the details of her imprisonment in the deserted bungalow.</p>
			<p>“You took a great deal of risk,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew chided his daughter. “But I must admit it was a clever piece of detective work.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, dad.”</p>
			<p>“All’s well that ends well,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Aborn quoted rather tritely. But in this case it didn’t end well.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?” Nancy asked quickly.</p>
			<p>“Laura has lost her fortune and I am penniless, too.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Aborn! We recovered the money.”</p>
			<p>“I thought it burned up in the wreck.”</p>
			<p>“I should say not,” Laura broke in. “Nancy dragged those suitcases out of the fire at the risk of her life.”</p>
			<p>“And to think we haven’t even looked to see if the money is there!” Nancy exclaimed. “I guess we’ve been too busy the last hour.”</p>
			<p>“Let’s have a look now,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew proposed.</p>
			<p>Picking up one of the suitcases, he examined it critically.</p>
			<p>“Locked!” he announced. “And Stumpy probably has the key!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, how disappointing,” Laura murmured.</p>
			<p>“If there’s a hammer in the house, we can soon have these bags open!” the lawyer declared.</p>
			<p>“I know where to find one!” Laura cried eagerly. “I’ll get it.”</p>
			<p>In a few minutes she returned from the kitchen and gave the hammer to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew. After a few sharp blows, the lock burst open.</p>
			<p>Anxiously, the four looked inside. Carson Drew pulled out a great deal of clothing, but a careful examination revealed nothing of value.</p>
			<p>“Oh, the money isn’t there!” Nancy exclaimed in bitter disappointment. “What could have become of it?”</p>
			<p>“There’s another bag,” her father reminded her.</p>
			<p>The lock was stubborn, but several hard blows broke it. As <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew pushed back the cover there was a chorus of “ohs!” for there on top of a pile of clothing were the missing bank notes.</p>
			<p>Jacob Aborn snatched up the neat packages of bills and hastily counted them. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew continued his search through the suitcase and unearthed a small bundle of papers which he turned over to Laura’s guardian.</p>
			<p>“My property!” Jacob Aborn declared.</p>
			<p>“Is Laura’s money all here?” Nancy asked.</p>
			<p>“Every cent of it.”</p>
			<p>“Then I’m really not poor, after all,” Laura said happily. “Stumpy told me I was practically a pauper.”</p>
			<p>“A pauper! Why, you’re rich. Your fortune amounts to more than a hundred thousand dollars!”</p>
			<p>“A hundred thousand dollars! Oh, I can scarcely believe it.”</p>
			<p>“You deserve every cent of it,” Nancy said kindly.</p>
			<p>“The nicest part of all is that I have a guardian to love me,” Laura returned wistfully.</p>
			<p>“And a guardian who will always try to make you happy,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Aborn added feelingly. “You have suffered a great deal the last few weeks. I will do my best to make it up to you.”</p>
			<p>“And I’ll look after you, too. You’ll need a good nurse for a few days.”</p>
			<p>“Then we’ll leave you in good hands,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew said as he picked up his hat. “I gather that you don’t care to return to River Heights with us now.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no!” Laura said quickly, and then bit her lip and flushed. “I didn’t mean that the way it soanded. You don’t know how I appreciate everything you’ve done for me; but it’s just that I want to stay with my own guardian.”</p>
			<p>“We understand,” Nancy said kindly, as she took Laura’s hand in her own. “I’ll send your things to-morrow.”</p>
			<p>“But I’ll see you often, shan’t I?”</p>
			<p>“I hope so, Laura.”</p>
			<p>“River Heights is only twenty miles away. You must drive up often,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Aborn put in.</p>
			<p>Laura thought for a moment.</p>
			<p>“Promise you’ll come next Sunday,” she begged. ‘You and your father must both come. I have a special reason for asking.”</p>
			<p>“Do,” urged <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Aborn.</p>
			<p>“All right, we’ll come.”</p>
			<p>After Jacob Aborn and Laura had again thanked Nancy and her father for what they had done, the two said good-bye and left the bungalow. As they stepped out on the porch, Nancy chanced to turn her eyes toward the east, and a startled expression came into her face.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter now?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew asked.</p>
			<p>“The sun! It’s just coming up over the lake! We’ve been up all night.”</p>
			<p>“I feel like it, too,” her father grumbled.</p>
			<p>Nancy Drew did not hear, for she had turned toward the east again and was observing the glory of the sunrise. It was symbolic, she told herself, not only of a new day, but of a new life for Laura Pendleton.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
