<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Laura Begins to Worry</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Not without misgiving, Laura Pendleton stood at the window of the Carson Drew residence and watched Nancy start off for Melrose Lake in her roadster.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps I shouldn’t have allowed her to take that note to my guardian,” she thought uneasily. “Nancy is going to a great deal of trouble and risk for me. I’m afraid it isn’t fair to involve her in my affairs.”</p>
			<p>After a time, she entered the library and tried to interest herself in a novel. She found she could not remember a word she had read, so laid the book aside in a little while. Walking restlessly to the window, she glanced out.</p>
			<p>“I may as well do some shopping,” she decided. “It will help me kill the time and help me forget my troubles.”</p>
			<p>She told Hannah Gruen where she was going, and then started off afoot for the business section of River Heights. The day was a pleasant one, and as she walked briskly along, her worries seemed less real.</p>
			<p>Reaching a department store, Laura entered and purchased a few articles for which she had urgent need. In her hasty departure from Melrose Lake, she had forgotten a great many things. However, she made her purchases with the utmost caution, for with the exception of a twenty dollar bill in her purse, she was without funds. When that was gone she did not know what she would do.</p>
			<p>“I’ll never sell or pawn mother’s jewels, even if I starve,” she told herself. “I’ll manage some way. Perhaps Nancy will help me find work.”</p>
			<p>Carrying her packages with her, Laura walked slowly back to the Drew residence. Already, the evening shadows were beginning to gather. In another hour or two it would be dark. As she passed the garage, she noticed that it was empty. Nancy had not returned.</p>
			<p>“I do hope she gets back before dark,” Laura thought anxiously.</p>
			<p>Entering the house, she had not had time to put away her things when the telephone jangled. A minute later, the housekeeper told her that there was a long-distance telephone call for her.</p>
			<p>“It’s from Miss Nancy, I think,” Hannah Gruen said.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I hope nothing has happened!”</p>
			<p>Eagerly, Laura snatched up the telephone receiver. Nancy’s quiet voice at the other end of the wire reassured her. However, as she listened to her friend’s daring plan, she was somewhat alarmed. Still, other than to warn Nancy to be careful, she made no protest, for she felt that her friend’s judgment was probably better than her own.</p>
			<p>“If I’m not back or haven’t telephoned within twenty-four hours, send the police to your guardian’s bungalow,” Nancy told her.</p>
			<p>Laura promised, and a moment later hung up. Before she turned away from the telephone, she regretted that she had not asked Nancy to give up her plan.</p>
			<p>“She doesn’t realize what a mean man Jacob Aborn is,” she told herself. “If he catches her prowling about the bungalow at night there’s no telling what he may do.”</p>
			<p>Tempted to call Nancy back, she picked up the telephone again. With her hand on the receiver, she hesitated.</p>
			<p>“I’m just a little coward,” she accused herself. “I’ll not let my nerves get the best of me this time.”</p>
			<p>Resolutely she turned away. Presently, Hannah called her to dinner, and she made a pretense of eating, but was relieved when the dessert dishes were cleared away. Returning to the living room, she tried to read the evening paper. The hours dragged slowly along, and still there was no sign of Nancy. Several times Laura walked to the window and cast a hopeful glance down the driveway.</p>
			<p>“I suppose it’s too early to expect her home,” she told herself.</p>
			<p>As she crossed to the window for perhaps the tenth time that evening she was surprised to see a tall, elderly man coming up the walk toward the house. Although Laura had never seen him before, she was instantly convinced that it was Carson Drew.</p>
			<p>He thrust open the front door and his eyes fell upon her.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Nancy,” he called. “It’s good to get back home again! Oh, I beg your pardon! I couldn’t see your face. I thought you were my daughter.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t wonder you are surprised to find a stranger in your home,” Laura said, with a friendly smile.</p>
			<p>Quickly, she introduced herself and told Carson Drew what had happened and why Nancy had gone to Melrose Lake. She ended by apologizing for her presence in the house.</p>
			<p>“You’re entirely welcome to our hospitality,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew assured her cordially when she had finished her story. “But I’ll admit I’m rather worried about Nancy. Tell me more about that guardian of yours. What does he look like?”</p>
			<p>Laura gave a detailed description of the man.</p>
			<p>“H‑m! Did you say that his name is Jacob Aborn? Wait a minute.”</p>
			<p>Walking over to the desk he began to rummage in a drawer. Laura noticed the stern expression on his face and was troubled.</p>
			<p>After a brief search, Carson Drew brought out a small photograph and handed it to Laura.</p>
			<p>“Is that your guardian?”</p>
			<p>Laura stared at the photograph in amazement.</p>
			<p>“Why, it is! It’s Jacob Aborn!”</p>
			<p>Carson Drew shook his head.</p>
			<p>“That man is Stumpy Dowd.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand.”</p>
			<p>“Stumpy Dowd is a clever criminal. He has a long police record. Just now he is at large.”</p>
			<p>“Stumpy Dowd!” Laura exclaimed in horror. “You mean my guardian is a criminal?”</p>
			<p>“It looks that way, and a particularly tough one at that.”</p>
			<p>“And Nancy has gone up there to see him! What if something should happen to her!”</p>
			<p>“We must get in touch with her at once! Do you know the hotel where she is staying?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. But it’s pretty late now. Perhaps she isn’t there.”</p>
			<p>“That’s what we want to find out.”</p>
			<p>Now thoroughly excited, Laura ran to the telephone and placed a call to the Beach Cliff Hotel. Impatiently, Carson Drew waited for a response. When the bell finally rang, he snatched up the receiver.</p>
			<p>“Hello?” he said eagerly.</p>
			<p>It was the voice of the hotel telephone operator that greeted him.</p>
			<p>“We are unable to reach your party. Miss Drew is not in her room.”</p>
			<p>Carson Drew turned from the telephone, a drawn expression upon his face.</p>
			<p>“She’s not in,” he informed Laura. “That may mean anything, and again it may not. I’m afraid Nancy is in trouble!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, what shall we do?”</p>
			<p>“I must go to Melrose Lake as quickly as I can.”</p>
			<p>“May I go too? It was my fault that Nancy went there, and I want to help if I can.”</p>
			<p>“We may run into danger.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not afraid.”</p>
			<p>Laura, who by nature was timid, had suddenly become calm and determined.</p>
			<p>“Then get your things quickly.”</p>
			<p>As Carson Drew issued the order, he jerked open a drawer in the table and pulled out a revolver. Hastily loading it, he stuck it in his pocket.</p>
			<p>“I’m ready,” Laura announced.</p>
			<p>Rushing from the house, they climbed into <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew’s brown sedan. He backed out of the garage and without stopping to close the doors behind him, headed teward Melrose Lake.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I hope we get there in time!” Laura breathed.</p>
			<p>Carson Drew made no response, but his hands clenched more tightly on the steering wheel,</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
