<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Left to Starve</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>A deathlike quiet fell upon the old bungalow. Nancy Drew and Jacob Aborn stared at each other in despair. Stumpy Dowd had dared to carry out his threat. He had left them in the cellar to starve.</p>
			<p>Fastened to the wall at opposite sides of the room, they were unable to help each other. Aborn’s bonds were such that he could move about, but his tether was too short to permit him to reach Nancy, who lay on the floor, bound hand and foot. Their situation seemed hopeless.</p>
			<p>In his haste, Stumpy Down had forgotten the lantern, and now its dim light served to reveal the sordidness of the prison. In a short time the oil would burn out and then they would be left in the dark⁠—a darkness which would soon drive them mad.</p>
			<p>However, Nancy Drew’s first thought was not for herself, but for Laura. She recalled Stumpy’s threat, and was afraid that he would go to River Heights and attempt to harm the girl.</p>
			<p>“I hope dad is home from St. Louis,” she thought miserably. “He’ll look after her.”</p>
			<p>At the best, she knew that Laura would be left penniless. Even now Stumpy was making his escape with the Pendleton fortune. After going to River Heights he would undoubtedly strike for the border. Once in a foreign country he would enjoy his ill-gotten gains in comparative safety.</p>
			<p>The same thought was passing through the mind of Jacob Aborn, for in desperation he sprang up from the bench and paced the floor like a caged lion. He shook his chains and beat them wildly against the stone wall until his wrists were cut and bleeding.</p>
			<p>“If I could only get my hands on that wretch !” he cried bitterly.</p>
			<p>Again he clawed at his chains, but could not break them. In vain he pounded the padlock against the floor. Not until he was completely exhausted did he give up. Then he quietly collapsed on the bench.</p>
			<p>“Oh, my poor Laura,” he half sobbed. “And to think that I promised her mother I’d always look after her.”</p>
			<p>Nancy gazed upon the man in compassion, but could think of nothing to say in comfort. The situation seemed unreal to her. She felt that it was a horrible nightmare, from which she must soon awaken.</p>
			<p>However, the dull ache in her head and the cutting ropes were severe reminders of her plight. If only she could find a means of escape!</p>
			<p>She considered shouting for help, but almost at once decided that it would only be a waste of energy. The bungalow was located in a desolate portion of the forest and seldom did anyone pass near the spot. Jacob Aborn had been held a prisoner for nearly two weeks, and had been unable to make his cries heard.</p>
			<p>It was characteristic of Nancy Drew to keep her head when faced with a grave problem. Stumpy Dowd had left her to die, but the will to live was strong within her. She would not give up without a brave struggle.</p>
			<p>“If only I can free my hands!” she thought grimly.</p>
			<p>She glanced down at the ropes meditatively. To the eye there was no space between the thongs and her wrists, and yet if she had made no mistake, she should be able to move her hands in such a way that she could slip out of the ropes. If only the trick would work!</p>
			<p>Giving her wrists a peculiar twist, she was. elated to find a little slack in the ropes. She tried to slip her hands from the bonds but could not. However, Nancy was not ready to give up. She hoped that by moving her hands back and forth, she would eventually be able to free herself.</p>
			<p>Frantically she began working at the ropes. After a few minutes, her wrists became chafed and tender, but the knowledge that she was making a little progress gave her new courage.</p>
			<p>After a time, Jacob Aborn sat up on the bench at the opposite side of the room. He said nothing as he watched her work, and his very silence told Nancy that he had given up all hope of escape. Presently, however, his interest quickened.</p>
			<p>“You’re getting it?” he demanded eagerly.</p>
			<p>“I think so,” Nancy returned.</p>
			<p>Grimly she struggled to free herself. Her hands and wrists were now bleeding, but she was oblivious of the cuts and bruises. The realization that Stumpy Dowd was speeding toward River Heights to make trouble for Laura drove her to more frantic efforts. She must escape!</p>
			<p>Then, without warning, the light in the lantern went out and the room was plunged in darkness. The supply of oil bad been exhausted.</p>
			<p>Nancy found it more difficult to work, but she kept doggedly on. Each minute seemed an eternity. Then after a quarter of an hour, success was hers.</p>
			<p>With a cry of pleasure, she pulled her hands free from the ropes.</p>
			<p>“I did it!” she cried.</p>
			<p>Jacob Aborn sprang up from the bench, his chain clanking loudly against the floor.</p>
			<p>“Then we’ll escape! We may be able to catch that scoundrel yet!”</p>
			<p>Nancy did not respond, for she was working grimly at the ropes which bound her feet, Stumpy had tied the knots securely and they were stubborn. She could have severed the ropes in an instant with a knife, but was forced to pick them out with her fingers. It was tedious work,</p>
			<p>“There!” she exclaimed, as she untied the last knot. “I’m free!”</p>
			<p>She sprang to her feet, and tottered uncertainly. The blow on her head had left her dizzy, and her limbs were cramped from lack of circulation. Leaning weakly against the wall, she recovered her equilibrium.</p>
			<p>“Have courage!” she called out to Jacob Aborn. “I’ll set you free in a minute if I can find the key!”</p>
			<p>“It’s hanging from a nail on the north wall,” Mr. Aborn directed her eagerly.</p>
			<p>Stumbling across the cellar, Nancy groped about on the damp wall. Stumpy had hung the key in plain sight of his two victims as a means of torturing them, but now his action served them to advantage.</p>
			<p>Nancy struck a nail with her hand and the key clattered down at her feet. Fumbling about in the dark, she found it and ran to Jacob Aborn’s side.</p>
			<p>Quickly working at the padlock, she set the man free. The chains fell to the floor with a loud thud.</p>
			<p>“Now to catch Stumpy Dowd!” she cried. “We must hurry or he will get away!”</p>
			<p>“He had to go back to the house after the money,” Jacob Aborn said tensely. “We may catch him there!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
