<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Laura's Story</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was nearly six o'clock when Nancy Drew's mud-splattered roadster finally reached River Heights and turned in at the driveway of the Drew residence. With a sigh of relief the two girls climbed from the automobile and stretched their cramped muscles.</p>
			<p>The ride from Melrose Lake had been a tedious one, and Nancy's arms ached from the strain of holding the car to the road. She had been forced to battle mud until she had reached pavement a short way from the city. Laura Pendleton, who had been drenched by the chilly rain, was chattering with cold, and Nancy was far from warm.</p>
			<p>"I'll find dry clothing for you right away," Nancy promised, rushing her friend toward the house.</p>
			<p>As the girls entered, Hannah Gruen, the housekeeper, came from the kitchen and surveyed them in amazement.</p>
			<p>"Land sakes"’ she exclaimed. "You must have been caught in the storm!"</p>
			<p>"We certainly were," Nancy returned. "Hannah, this is my friend, Laura Pendleton. We're both soaked to the skin. While we're changing into dry clothing, I wonder if you would make us some hot tea or a little beef broth?"</p>
			<p>"Indeed, I will," Hannah assured her eagerly.</p>
			<p>"Is father here?" Nancy questioned, as the housekeeper started toward the kitchen.</p>
			<p>"Mr. Drew left for St. Louis early last week,"</p>
			<p>"Oh, I didn’t know he was going." Nancy was disappointed, for she had hoped that her father would be at home to meet Laura. "Business, I suppose?"</p>
			<p>"Yes, I think he said it was about some law case. He left a note for you. I'll get it."</p>
			<p>The housekeeper hurried to the desk. Removing an envelope from a drawer, she handed it to Nancy.</p>
			<p>"You'd better change your clothes before you read it," she advised the girl.</p>
			<p>Nancy took Laura upstairs and quickly found suitable garments. As Laura was about her own size, she had no trouble in fitting her. While she dressed, Nancy scanned the note from her father.</p>
			<p>"He was called away unexpectedly," she told Laura. "I'm sorry he isn't here, because he will want to thank you for saving my life."</p>
			<p>"Oh, I don't want any thanks for that," Laura protested.</p>
			<p>"Father says he will get back either to-morrow or the next day, so perhaps you’ll meet him after all."</p>
			<p>"Oh, I can't stay that long, Nancy."</p>
			<p>"Nonsense! I won’t permit you to leave until I’m certain you’ve suffered no bad effects from this adventure. Do you feel better now?"</p>
			<p>"Yes, I'm all right."</p>
			<p>"Then we'll go downstairs. Hannah will have something for us to eat."</p>
			<p>"What a beautiful home you have here, Nancy!" exclaimed Laura as she looked around her with much satisfaction.</p>
			<p>"I think it's nice, Laura," answered the lawyer's daughter. "Anyway, it’s very comfortable. Dad and I wouldn’t like it any better."</p>
			<p>"I had just such a nice home once," returned the visitor, and her voice saddened a bit. "That was when mother and dad were alive."</p>
			<p>"Well, I hope that some day you'll have just as nice a place in which to live, and Nancy placed an assuring hand on the other girl's shoulder.</p>
			<p>After a warm meal, Nancy lighted a small fire in the fireplace and insisted that Laura curl up in a comfortable chair and toast her feet.</p>
			<p>"Just relax," she ordered.</p>
			<p>Laura leaned her head back against the cushions and gave a tired sigh.</p>
			<p>"Oh, it's so homelike here, Nancy." Her voice broke. "I'm afraid I'l] never have a happy home again—now that mother is gone."</p>
			<p>"Perhaps you’ll feel better if you tell me what is troubling you, Laura."</p>
			<p>"Oh, it's my guardian, Nancy. I can't live another day with Jacob Aborn."</p>
			<p>"Isn't he kind to you?"</p>
			<p>"Kind!" Laura's eyes flashed. "He doesn't know the meaning of the word! I don't see why mother ever placed me under his guardianship."</p>
			<p>"Tell me what has happened since you left Moon Lake, and perhaps we can think of a way out of your difficulties."</p>
			<p>"Jacob Aborn is so dictatorial and mean." Laura began. "He was fairly decent to me as long as we were at Moon Lake, but just as soon as we reached his bungalow he came out in his true colors."</p>
			<p>"I wasn't favorably impressed with him myself," Nancy Drew admitted. "Didn’t he take you to a nice home?"</p>
			<p>"Oh, the bungalow is all right. I haven't any complaint on that score, save that it’s very far removed from the other cottages on the lake. But, Nancy, would you believe it? He doesn’t keep a single servant."</p>
			<p>"He didn't expect you to do the work?"</p>
			<p>"He did, Nancy. And the bungalow has nine rooms, too. I hadn’t been there an hour when he told me to get busy."</p>
			<p>"How mean! Why, you're not strong enough to do hard work," Nancy protested. "I thought your mother left an ample allowance for your needs."</p>
			<p>"I thought the same, but it seems I was mistaken."</p>
			<p>"Jacob Aborn told you that?"</p>
			<p>"Yes. I had understood that mother left something like fifty or sixty thousand dollars. My guardian tells me the estate has dwindled to less than fifteen thousand dollars."</p>
			<p>"Even that amount should be sufficient to keep you, Laura."</p>
			<p>"Jacob Aborn says it wasn’t wisely invested. He claims I’m not much better off than a pauper."</p>
			<p>"Strange he should wait until he had taken you to Melrose Lake before he told you," Nancy murmured in so low a tone that Laura did not hear.</p>
			<p>"Oh, you have no idea how I’ve suffered the last few days, Nancy. Jacob Aborn has been so hateful to me. He won’t give me any spending money, and he says I’m not to have any more money for clothes."</p>
			<p>"I don't wonder you couldn't stand it."</p>
			<p>"You haven't heard the worst. He even took my fur coat away from me. I hadn’t had an opportunity to put it in storage and had it in my trunk."</p>
			<p>"He took your coat?" Nancy gasped.</p>
			<p>"Yes. I think he intends to pawn it."</p>
			<p>"I never heard of anything more outrageous!"</p>
			<p>"And he’s been trying to force me to turn over mother's jewels to him."</p>
			<p>"You didn't do it!" Nancy exclaimed quickly.</p>
			<p>"No, they’re wrapped up in that little bundle I brought with me. Perhaps I can put them in your safe for a few days?"</p>
			<p>"Certainly."</p>
			<p>"The jewels are worth considerable, though of course I wouldn’t think of selling them."</p>
			<p>"What did Jacob Aborn want with them?" Nancy questioned suspiciously.</p>
			<p>"He said he intended to put them in a safe place, but I didn’t believe him. I feel sure he expected to sell them."</p>
			<p>"That man must be a regular villain," Nancy observed indignantly.</p>
			<p>"He threatened me, too. He said if I didn't turn over the jewels he’d lock me up in my room. I can't understand the man, Nancy. He does the queerest things."</p>
			<p>"What sort of things, Laura?"</p>
			<p>"Well, for one thing he leaves the bungalow every night, carrying a small bundle. When he returns, the bundle is gone."</p>
			<p>“That is odd," Nancy said thoughtfully. "How long is he usually gone?"</p>
			<p>“Oh, about an hour I should judge I haven't the slightest idea where he goes, but he acts as though he's afraid someone will see him," she answered.</p>
			<p>"It does look peculiar, Laura. Have you noticed anything else about him?"</p>
			<p>"He always makes these trips after dark when he thinks I'm asleep. Several times I've heard him steal out of the house."</p>
			<p>"You never followed him?"</p>
			<p>"Mercy, no! I'd have been afraid. Anyway, I couldn't have done it had I wished, because he always locked me in."</p>
			<p>"H‑m," Nancy mused thoughtfully. "He must be afraid you’ll learn something."</p>
			<p>"Either that or he wanted to prevent me from running away."</p>
			<p>"How did you manage it?"</p>
			<p>"Jacob Aborn seldom leaves the bungalow in the day time, but this afternoon was an exception. He locked me in my room and left me there. Just as soon as he was out of sight, I bundled up mother's jewels—I had hidden them under the mattress. Then I made a rope out of the sheets and lowered myself to the ground. I started off down the road, hoping I would meet someone who would help me reach River Heights."</p>
			<p>"How fortunate that I ran into you."</p>
			<p>"Yes, it was. The storm came up quickly and I was dreadfully frightened. I knew Jacob Aborn would half kill me if he caught me. Now that I have escaped, I don't know what I had better do. Can I be forced to return to that horrible man?"</p>
			<p>"Are you sure he's your legal guardian?"</p>
			<p>"I guess he is," Laura admitted miserably. "I saw the papers."</p>
			<p>"Unless the court appoints a new guardian I am afraid he could force you to return," Nancy said slowly. "Of course, I'm not sure about that, but I believe he would have a legal right to do it. I wish father were here. He would know."</p>
			<p>"Oh, what shall I do, Nancy?" Laura cried desperately. "I can't go back! I'd sooner be dead!"</p>
			<p>"Don't worry," Nancy said comfortingly. "Jacob Aborn hasn't found you yet."</p>
			<p>"But I have no place to hide. I am without friends."</p>
			<p>“You mustn’t forget that I am your friend," Nancy returned quietly. "I'll do everything in my power to help you."</p>
			<p>"Oh, Nancy, you're so good." Tears came into Laura’s eyes.</p>
			<p>"You mustn’t think about Jacob Aborn any more. You are to stay here until my father comes back. He'll be able to help you, I know. Perhaps I'll be able to think of something myself."</p>
			<p>A look of determination settled over Nancy Drew's face. She was convinced that Jacob Aborn was a cruel guardian, and she intended to help her new friend. If only she could think of a way!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
